---
title: Identity Management
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

Identity management is one of the mechanisms that set BobaBoard apart from other
social networks. In particular, rather than surfacing `user data` in its APIs,
BobaBoard surfaces `identity data`.

## Benefits

Decoupling `Identity` from the underlying `User` allows for the following
benefits:

### Identities can be managed as independent entities.

By default, there is no world-visible connection between `Identities` belonging
to the same user account. These connections can, however, be revealed to other
users through the [Identity Reveal System](#revealing-identities).

### Fine-grained data access

A user can maintain multiple, separate `Identities` on a single account. Each of
these `Identities` can be used across different `Realms`, `Boards` or `Threads`.

Users can independently decide which `Realm`, `Board`(?) or `User` has access to
each `Identity`'s activity and data. Users can also choose to selectively reveal
which identities belong to the same `User`.

### User identities can be optional

A user can choose not to reveal _any_ identity data on `Realms` and `Boards`
that support `Anonymity`.

### Identities can be shared across different users

While this feature isn't currently designed (or planned), the separation of
identities theoretically allows the same `Identity` to be associated with
separate accounts.

## Creating Identities

**This feature still in the design phase!** More information will be available
in the future.

<Aside type="danger">

When a friendship relationship is present, the current implementation reveals
the `user data` rather than the data of the `Identity` associated with the
`User`. Fixing this should be trivial once the design is finalized.

</Aside>

## Managing Identities

### Anonymous Boards/Realms

When a `Realm` or a `Board` supports anonymity, BobaBoard randomly selects an
`Identity` to associate with the user's activity. You can read more about
anonymous identity selection in the [BobaDex page](bobadex.md).

### Non-Anonymous Boards/Realms

**This feature still in the design phase!** More information will be available
in the future.

#### Open Questions

- How does the user decide which identity to join the board/realm with? When do
  they make the decision?
  - How does this work in Realms that allow both personal and multiple
    identities?
- Can a user join a Realm with multiple identities? Are there pitfalls in
  allowing them to do so?
  - **WARNING:** Not allowing this possibility creates a danger of identity
    connection.
    <details>
      <summary>Example</summary>
      <div>
        Alice asks Bob to join their Realm with a specific identity. Bob has
        already joined the Realm with a different one, and is unable to do
        accept Alice's request. Alice can now infer that one of the identities
        already in the Realm belongs to Bob.
      </div>
    </details>

## Revealing Identities

While the codebase already accounts for this system, the exact mechanics
governing identity reveal are not currently defined.

In the current setup, personal identity is revealed to users with a `friends`
relationship in the database. No mechanism to create a friendship is available
in the API.

### Identity Data Management

**This feature still in the design phase!** More information will be available
in the future.

#### Open Questions

- How do we decide which subset of the identity data is available to who?
- How do we allow users to not repeat the same information over and over for
  which identity?
