---
sidebar_position: 1
---
# BobaBoard Basics

_"BobaBoard will move you and fill you with a feeling of deep peace. I hope your time here will be pleasant and your memories will last forever."_

## What is BobaBoard?
**The Simple Answer:** A communities website made for fandom by people in fandom.

**The Detailed Answer:** BobaBoard was born as a response to Tumblr's porn ban and to the increasingly hostile nature of online spaces. BobaBoard's main goal (among many) is to create an open source platform, collaboratively built by fans for fans, that can support the needs of small online communities by being adaptable, stable, and fun to use.

While BobaBoard has a unique take on online communities, its inspirations include Tumblr, Discord, LiveJournal, and many others.

## Bobaboard Concepts
### Realms
:::info

This section of the guide is still in development! We're still in the process of figuring out how Realms will work. The general idea is explained below, but your input will help shape things!

:::

BobaBoard is made up of indivdual communities where users can interact called **Realms**. Every Realm is a distinct community and users will have to join each Realm where they'd like to have the ability to post and read in. This means that users can't see every post on all of BobaBoard, but can only see the content posted in the Realms they've joined. 

Ultimately, these contained communities will have their own different rules, culture, goals, and user-acceptance criteria, generated by the community members and leaders who are interacting there. Realms may have different approaches to tagging, content moderation, or organization; they may host Realm only events or contests. 

This structure is very similar in different ways to different platforms. It most closely resembles forums, but with modern features; each Realm is it's own forum with subforums to post to. In some ways, it it is similar to Discord servers - Discord is hosting all of the servers, but each server is it's own community. If you're a fandom old (or happen to be familiar), the community structure might also remind you of LJ, DW, or other LJ-clone's communities - except with BobaBoard there's no personal blog.

There are currently two Realms making up BobaBoard:
- V0: The Alpha
  > The OG BobaBoard. A closed Alpha for Ms. Boba's friends, Boba volunteers, and early adopters.

- Fandom Coders
  > The first official "Realm". It's a community of fandom people who also code or want to learn to code, particularly if they use coding in their fandom activities!

For more information on each Realm, visit their sections in the guide.

There will be opportunities in the future for others to establish their own Realms.

### Boards, Not Blogs
Each **Realm** is made up of multiple Boards. Boards are similar to subforum in a forum or modern Discord channels; they define the broad topics of conversations and give users a heads-up as to what they can expect to find.

To interact in a Realm, you post to a board related to your topic. In our current culture, we care more about you posting than *where* you post. If something might fit in more than one place, choose the one that's most appropriate according to your own nebulous criteria.

_"The boards are more what you'd call guidelines than actual rules."_

At this stage, there's no personal "blog" or "page" on BobaBoard. There's no user address that you can give someone so that they can see all your posts. We're focused on building a better fandom community experience first, but personal solutions might be incorportated in the future. 

<!-- ### COMMENTED OUT: Pending V0/volunteer discord discussion on explaining Anon Identities. Did not want to lose what we had.
Random Anonymous Identities
Identities are assigned at random each time a user starts a post, comments, or contributes. Initially, you might be confused by seeing the same anonymous identities all around the space. Just know that, outside a single thread, *the users behind these identities are not the same*. There's not a single "Revolver Ocelot (Revolver Ocelot)": every new thread each identity is shuffled and reassigned to someone else. 

Who knows, maybe you'll be the next "Revolver Ocelot (Revolver Ocelot)"!

:::caution

While your real identity is not publicly visible, your posts and comments are still associated with your account and can be deanonimized and subjected to moderation.

For more info, please see When and How We Deanon.

:::

__**Exceptions to Anonymity**__
- Static identities (roles)
- Identity exchange

For more info on anonymous identities see, BobaDex. -->

# Using This Guide
BobaBoard's two Realms currently have more in common than not. The information outside of a section dedicated to a Realm pertains to BobaBoard as a whole: shared features, etiquette, and information. For things specific to each Realm (such as Rules), you can find more detailed information in their individual sections.