---
title: Quick introduction to bubbles
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Aside } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

BobaBoard's volunteers collaborate using
[a sociocratic concept called "circles"](https://www.sociocracyforall.org/organizational-circle-structure-in-sociocracy/).
Since this is BOBAboard, however, we opted to call our circles "bubbles" ðŸ˜‰

Each bubble has its own
**[aim](https://www.sociocracyforall.org/vision-mission-and-aims-in-sociocracy/)**
(what the bubble exists to do) and its own
**[domain](https://www.sociocracyforall.org/clarity-and-empowerment-what-is-a-domain/)**
(where the bubble has authority to make decisions and take action.)

# List of BobaBoard's Current Bubbles

BobaBoard currently has the following bubbles:

## Steering Roadmappening Strategy Bubble

**Aim**: Bring together, guide, and support volunteers to collaboratively build
a modern open-source community social platform that caters to the needs of, and
welcomes the contributions of, queer/kinky/fannish people by prioritizing secure
interaction within size-limited intentional communities. _(Consented to on
9/29/24 for a one-year term.)_

**Domain:** All decisions relating to high-level priorities for the
organization. Any decisions outside the domains of the more specialized bubble.
Adjudication of other bubbles' domains if there is ever confusion over who is
responsible for what.

<Aside type="tip" title="Not sure whose job it is?">

The buck stops with Steering! If you don't know which bubble should handle
something, or whether your bubble is ALLOWED to handle something, you can ask
Steering to sort it out.

</Aside>

### Boba Builders Bubble ("B^3")

**Aim:** Build and maintain an accessible, self-hostable, modular codebase for a
modern open-source community social platform that caters to the needs of, and
welcomes the contributions of, its queer/kinky/fannish userbase by prioritizing
secure interaction within size-limited intentional communities (Realms).
_(Consented to on 7/14/24 for a one-year term.)_

**Domain:** All decisions and tasks related to engineering BobaBoard the social
platform.  
_e.g., writing and approving code, picking a new web framework, collecting user
feedback on UI/UX changes_

### Documentation Bubble

**Aim:** Collect, create, edit, review, and publish documentation related to all
policies and other necessary knowledge involved in the development, maintenance,
and support of BobaBoard and its intersection with the wider Fujoverse.
_(Proposed by Steering Bubble on 10/30/24, awaiting consent from Documentation
Bubble members)_

**Domain:** All decisions and tasks related to BobaBoard documentation.  
_e.g., deciding how articles should be styled, working with a B^3 member to
document an engineering procedure, reorganizing existing articles into more
logical groups_

### Volunteering Bubble

**Aim:** Recruit, onboard, document, and support volunteers and their engagement
within the wider BobaBoard organization and any intersecting parts of the
FujoVerse.

**Domain:** All decisions and tasks related to BobaBoard in its capacity as a
workplace. _(Proposed by Steering Bubble on 10/30/24, awaiting consent from
Volunteering Bubble members)_ _e.g., writing a Volunteer Code of Conduct, making
outreach posts on social media to attract new recruits, planning groupwatches or
other community events_
